Continuing on from aliases,
there's a few limitations in using kind of a straight alias.
As you can see, it's just a command is linked
directly to kind of a string,
which means that we have no logical functionality.
And we can't programme it, which is fine for most cases,
but there are a few situations where it doesn't quite work.
And one of those other situations
is where the position of the arguments don't really work.
So, let's say I have this command called tree.
And I installed this using Brew.
And what it gives me is like a tree listing
of everything in that directory,
which is really, I find it quite useful.
But the problem is, I have to kind of scroll back
and kinda look for what I'm looking for
and if I want to page through it
I need to do less manually.
And if I want to look to a particular directory,
I would do this kind of thing.
So, this is an ideal candidate
for a alias.
So I'll take this.
Alias tree, let's say, equals that.
But, I don't want to hard code node modules.
I want to make it,
the argument that the user is gonna parse in.
But what is that?
Well, we can't do anything here.
It's just a string.
What happens is, if I run tree,
like this, and then node_modules,
this effectively comes out as
tree, pipe, less, and then node_modules
Okay, and that's not really what we want.
We want this node_modules
to be inserted here.
And we want the less to be left alone.
And that's where our function comes in.
A function can solve this problem for us.
Let's leave this.
I've opened my Zed RC file already.
I've inserted a new line.
So all my functions are kept in one place,
the same way as I've done with my aliases.
So I'm going to create a new function called tree.
I've called an alternative spelling I can do,
I'll show you tree later.
And the function looks like this.
And what we're going to do is call tree command.
So we're basically just writing,
this is what's going to be run in the shell
when I call tre.
Tree, and then, we're going to do something here,
and we're going to pipe it to less,
and actually I want to pipe into less-X.
And -X doesn't clear the screen.
And that dot dot dot, we want that,
to be everything that's been parsed in to tree
on the command line.
And that is dollar, at.
Okay, so if I save that,
and open up a new tab,
head off to the jsonbin.
If I type in tre, node modules,
I get the paging.
And also note the root directory
is the node module.
Hit space, you can go back and forth,
the same way as I do with a, with the less command.
So that is one, certainly for me,
quite common case where I would use
a function over an alias.
Pretty much, if, you know,
it's just a very simple command,
what I'm doing is I'm putting the arguments
in a very specific place.
This is an example that I've also used,
I used node for a lot of my work.
And I use a deep argument module,
which will only be activated
if I add an environment variable,
that is Debug in the name.
But I've found that I wanted just a quick way
of firing that up, so I created a shortcut.
Initially it was going to be an alias,
but it doesn't quite match,
because I need to say,
what I want to do is take all the normal output
and redirect it.
So this is redirect the arrow here.
Redirect it to dev/null.
What that does is make it quiet.
So just to quick show you.
Tree, dev/null.
There's no output.
And that's because all the Debug output
comes out, out of certain course standard error,
which is a separate stream,
so it's still printed to the screen,
even though node doesn't print anything on the screen.
And dnode, I would do dnode,
and then my project, what is it,
just be like index.js.
Or it might be lib/index.js.
And that would run this command.
But with Debug turned on,
all other outputs suppressed,
and it was pass in all the argments.
It doesn't even have to be one argument,
it could be two arguments, it could be,
you know, a=10, 12, whatever.
Everything I pass into dnode,
will be added here.
And effectively what's happening is $@
is quoting every one of the arguments.
So this ends up running this.
So, lib/index.js, then a=10.
So, really useful.
This is another version of the tree function.
But let's say I want to call it tree,
and actually I always want to use
the special version of tree.
So what this does,
is say, give me the tree listing,
but ignore some of these directories
so I don't care about the git directory
or the node modules directory.
But the directories at the beginning,
then we're parsing in our, in our directory.
And then it's piping it to less, with syntax highlighting.
But notice that the command, sorry,
the function is the same as the command.
Now I can get around, if I try to run this,
it'll just go into a loop and just go bananas.
But if I just prefix this with command,
I mentioned this in the aliases,
what this says is,
call the command tree, and ignore
any aliases or functions we already have.
So if I save that,
open up another window,
head off to jsonbin, and type in tree,
I get that nice syntax highlighting, paged.
It ignores all the git directories
and all the node modules directory.
And I can compare that by doing command tree,
which will ignore,
ignore my function.
And you can see here is the original listing,
with all of the extra gunk that I don't really care about.
So. That's pretty cool.
And you can go a lot further,
things like this.
This is dataurl function I just happened to have.
It's really just to show you how
you can get a lot more complicated.
And I've got, personally, I have a lot more
functions that do things like
test whether or not I'm parsing in,
I'm piping into it, or if it's an argument, and so on.
Here we've got some local variables.
The mimeType.
So what this does is grant the dataurl for a file name.
And what this does is get the mimeType
for the particular files.
This says run, this dollar bracket says run this command,
and capture the output in this.
It then tests the mimeType using this square bracket,
which is kind of bash, sorry, shell scripting.
And then it will echo out the actual file
running command, and give me a base64 encoded
URL for a file.
So if I do, what was it,
dataurl, dataurl, public/img/favicon.png,
there is a nice long single-line data URL.
And you can see it's prefixed
with the right mimeType as well.
Now I showed you this last one,
not to kind of, have you copy and paste it,
but to show you that there's lots of things available,
and really,
it's linked to, and I will link to again,
dotfiles that you can see other people's examples,
and take what you want.
I also linked to a couple of URLs
to kind of explain how variables work.
You can do substitution, and also kind of list out
the different types of these.
So if you just want the first argument, you'd do dollar 1,
if you want all the arguments quoted, you'd do $@,
if you just want all of them in a single quote,
but I'll include a link in this video
to explain kind of what those are, okay?